okay so the health aspect of a vegan
diet is important if you consider that
there have been vegans that have killed
their babies that have named their
children I'm not going to talk about
each and every moment in this debate but
I'm here gonna present you with how I
would respond differently to this
particular little conflict as Paul
Bashir the head of anonymous for the
voiceless faces off with Frank Tufano
that I'm gonna move on to speaking a
little bit more philosophically
generally and tactically okay so the
health aspect of a vegan diet is
important if you consider that there
have been vegans that have killed their
babies that have made their children and
many young children have suffered at the
hands of vegan parents so do you think
these parents need to be informed better
about how to properly and adequately
nourish a child on a plant-based diet no
because I think for every person that
you just said which was probably just
made up and I don't even know what
you're talking well I don't know what
you're talking about for every person
that you say is vegan who's harming
themselves or their children I can name
at least a thousand non vegans that are
harming dead themselves and their babies
with their diets and lifestyles so you
think it's okay for someone to miscarry
their child to kill their baby to
monitors their child to have their child
taken away from them under the condition
of their moral aspect of being on a
vegan diet the reason those children
were maimed killed or disfigured was
because the parents believed in feeding
them a vegan diet this belief system
that animals are more important than
humans
Frank for every person that you say
who's vegan is harmless substances
results of their diet or harm their
children as a result of a plant-based
diet because veganism is not about diets
I can name at least a thousand non
vegans who have harmed themselves with
their beliefs and their diets and their
children so this point doesn't need to
be discussed any more you said the point
of a vegan diet is - oh is it to
eliminate or minimize animal cruelty the
exploitation of animals but you're
saying that it's okay for vegans to harm
people because other people are harming
people essentially
that's not what I said at all well what
you said was there for every few vegans
UI name
you can name many other people that have
harmed and maimed their children and I
agree with that but that doesn't justify
the harming or maiming of children
regardless of your beliefs
my advice is it's always a mistake to
fight for the moral high ground stop it
at the very beginning of this I think
Paul didn't even notice but he was
presented with a great way out the
initial question presented with was do
you think there should be more and
better education to help vegans properly
raise and nourish their children instead
of fighting for the moral high ground be
warm and magnanimous and accepting of
the other side and agree that there's a
problem affirm that there's a real
concern at work there and then move
forward together even a situation of
implacable hostility from the other side
that is my advice so in this case I'd
say you know you're right there are a
lot of terrible parents out there there
are parents who are addicted to crack
their parents were addicted to heroin
their parents were just old-fashioned
alcoholics and they do terrible things
when they raise their children they make
terrible mistakes and those mistakes
have consequences not just for the lives
of their children before a whole society
and you know you ask great question
what can we do in terms of Education and
the tragic truth is we're really limited
it seems like no matter how much
education we have they're always going
to be some people who are cocaine
addicts and some people who are heroin
addicts some people who are alcoholics
who've become absolutely terrible
parents and you know what some of those
people are vegan they're always going to
be some bad parents who make terrible
choices that terrible consequences were
vegan and some of them are going to get
into the newspapers year after year so I
feel you I understand your concern
stepping away from drug addiction and
alcoholism you also know there are some
people who have all the same problems
while being clean and sober because they
are just straight-up crazy any problem
caused by drug addiction include
hallucination some people can have with
no drugs at all just just through being
plain old crazy and you know we live in
a society where we respect the civil
rights of the parents and there's this
huge question of when and how we can
step in and act in the interest of the
child you're right it's a tragedy and we
as vegans are wrapped up in the same
tragedy as meat-eaters and you know the
most important thing to understand here
is when there are bad parents they're
not bad parents because they're vegan
and I think you'd admit the same thing
when there were parents you neglect
their children or will make terrible
decisions that ruin their children's
lives we're not going to say that that's
because they were eating meat at the
time and ultimately there's no excuse
for it this challenge room this is warm
and folksy and agreeing with the guy and
affirming and saying you're right and in
a sense it's also saying look I don't
want to be on the high moral ground I
don't want to be smarter than you I
don't want to be better than you and I
don't want to be right I can be wrong I
can be wrong too and saying we can be
wrong together and then we can move
forward in this conversation from there
okay so it's okay for vegans to harm
people because other people are harming
people are now if you want to be cute
like that how about I hold the mic is
that way it's easier for you to
understand what I actually said what how
would you knowingly till the land spray
herbicides insecticides kill hundreds
depending on what metric we're using
it's trillions worldwide trillions of
insects rodents deer animals when you
tilled the soil and you spray insects
you spray insecticides and herbicides
kill all the insect all the the plant
life that you don't want
you're killing and displacing millions
of beings without question when that
crop grows back they multiply rapidly
whatever animals survived whatever
insects survived there's a new food
source so they start multiplying and
growing again and then what happens you
harvest the field you destroy their food
source they either starve to death or
are picked off by predators and the
cycle repeats itself and if you need to
cover yourself up and wear sunscreen and
you can't even be in the Sun for a
couple hours in New York City why do I
shave why did you shave your face it's
not natural dude because I don't want to
look like a dirty piece of in the middle
of New York City got a tattoo on your
neck face and saying don't use sunscreen
what dude your your argument is nature
though and then you shave your face I
don't want to talk about this in terms
of the philosophy of education I don't
want to talk about this in terms of the
philosophy of activism I want to talk
about this as a type of flirtation the
advice I'm about to give you in terms of
dealing with people and a down to earth
folksy way focuses the festival relative
over there I think it really is a lot
more like an idealized flirtation for me
a flirtation is not about deceiving the
other person it's not about seducing the
other person it's about letting them
know who you are and creating a space
creating a silence in the conversation
where they feel comfortable and they can
come forward and let you know who they
are for me by definition flirtation
takes place in a situation where neither
party is in love with the other in fact
the two people flirting you may not even
know if the other person is single or if
they're married you may not know if
you're interested or if their interests
or if they could be interested there are
a lot of unknowns but there's some sense
of possibility there's an attempt to get
to know one another that for me in
principle is flirtation in a flirtation
you never want to take the moral high
ground you never want to be proving I'm
smarter than you if anything you want to
in your conversation create a platform
or the other person feels more
intelligent than they really are where
the flirtation itself is flattering or
makes them feel empowered and
intelligent makes them feel if their
opinion matters to you I think that's a
crucial element of flirtation um you
don't want to prove that you're morally
superior to the other person if anything
you want to present yourself as having
common ground if anything it's a
Fantasia's to present yourself as the
villain
so for me Teeter says to you and you
know it could be in this kind of curve
aside context it could be that you're
giving a lecture at University and a
symposium to an audience but you know it
could be that you're a heterosexual male
and you're talking to a female you're a
vegan male talking to a female who's
still making excuses for eating me this
person you're talking to the mediator
says to you that it's inevitable that in
the production of wheat in the
production of corn in the farming of
broccoli that those forms of Agriculture
are going to kill some animals maybe
they're gonna kill some mice they're
gonna kill some insects I do not respond
to that by saying no you're wrong I do
not respond to that by trying to take
the moral high ground I do not respond
to that by trying to prove that I'm
smarter than they are or that I know
more than they do I start by saying
you're right you're right I agree and I
can even go further in attacking my own
position you're right you know what goes
way further than just farming it goes
way further than agriculture you want to
run a hospital you got to kill rats you
got to kill cockroaches you got to kill
all kinds of little critters
to maintain a standard of excellence and
hygiene in that hospital and if you're
committed to running the hospital to
benefit human beings benefit society
whatever however you want to think of it
if you're committed to running the
hospital a standard of excellence what
are you gonna say are you gonna say one
day no no no we've hit our limit we
killed a hundred mice to keep this
hospital going we should just stop we
should give up no whether it's going to
be 100 mice or 500 mice or a thousand
mice it's tragic but if you're committed
to the pursuit of this objective to
running this hospital
you're gonna kill mice and cockroaches
however many it takes it's tragic but
what you're saying is true we as vegans
we still commit to and we take
responsibility for killing animals in
all kinds of contexts if you want to run
an airport running an airport requires
that you killed birds maybe they're
seagulls maybe they're Ravens and it's
tragic
but birds can interfere with the radar
birds can fly into the engines and
propellers of the airplanes they just
straight-up crash into the aircraft
during takeoff and landing if you're
committed to running this Airport to
safety reliability and excellence if
you're gonna run this Airport you are
committed to killing animals to make
that happen and as a vegan you may not
be the one to kill the animals yourself
but you shouldn't lie to yourself as you
do that so you know what you're right
now can go way further than that I can
be magnanimous in agreeing with your
opinion step1 step2
but you know what we live in a world
we're forced to make these terrible
compromises we live in a world that is
tragic in just the way you've pointed
out but that does not make me want to
get down on my hands and knees and crawl
through the mud to drink the milk out of
a cow's udder sorry I just don't see any
relationship between these things what
you say is true it's tragic and it's
inevitable that human beings are gonna
have to kill some animals in some
situations but I don't see a
that an excuse for me to eat cheese for
me to drink milk for me to make those
compromise I don't see in that a reason
for me to give up on the efforts I can
make to make the world a better place
you know just just to do the best I can
any opportunity you get in these
situations whether it's public outreach
and education or whether it's a
flirtation as such I think you got to
emphasize look nothing you're saying is
freaking me out nothing you're saying is
making me angry my own parents eat meat
my father ate meat until the day he died
my co-workers all of my teachers that I
respected and had admiration for ate
meat and all the teachers that I
despised hated in school they all ate me
too I've grown up surrounded by meat
eaters just like you the purpose of a
flirtation is not to trick someone into
thinking they want to be in a
relationship with you for just one night
or for just one not sure it's not
seduction it's not deception when I say
flirtation I do not mean deception the
purpose of the flirtation is to let you
know who I am and for you to let me know
who you are and for us to figure out do
we have enough in common where we would
want to be in a relationship together
where we should be in a relationship
together or no is that not the case
maybe we should just be friends or maybe
we should just part ways as strangers
and never talk again maybe there's
something else but the stage of
flirtation is precisely that process of
going from somebody known pardon me
going from somebody who is completely
unknown to somebody who is known I'm not
trying to trick people into becoming
vegan against their interests against
their in strength instincts I'm not
trying it's not like a seduction or a
deception where for one night or for a
short time they're going to be gauged as
I'm interested in getting to know people
who have the intelligence
and the self-discipline and the talent
to be a positive part of the vegan
movement and yeah it is kind of
flirtation where you meet people and try
to figure out is it you doesn't know if
I give a lecture to 1,000 people how
many of them really possibly have the
talent to be vegan let alone to be a
vegan activist or organizer or artist or
somehow work for the Advancement of the
vegan is there one person in the crowd
and again if you're trying to fall in
love if you're trying to find a
girlfriend or a boyfriend or getting
married um you're not trying to you're
not trying to recruit a thousand people
you may be talking to a thousand people
to find that one person the person with
whom you have that common ground person
you appreciate and who appreciates you
so these interactions ultimately you
know if they're not about that kind of
discovery that kind of really honest
down-to-earth revelation of who you are
and discovered for the other person is I
think there is no point in having the
conversation at all what we're doing
here is not convincing each other of
facts it's not sharing data or raw
information it's figuring out who are
you and what are you motivated to do
what are your assumptions and what are
your motivations and you know what maybe
maybe you're going to leave this
conversation with a motivation to become
a better person to begin someone other
than who and what you already are maybe
and maybe you're just going to learn
something else that's going to adjust
your attitude a little bit by meeting me
and hearing a perspective from someone
who is very fundamentally a different
kind of person
with different assumptions and different
motivations
so let me just agree with Frank who
found out and take it a step further an
airport that's an easy example hospital
that's an easy example I used to work in
a museum Museum at a garden on one side
and a forest on the other kind of had
forests surrounding it half the building
in the tropics right here in Taiwan how
many animals are you gonna kill just to
keep a wooden chair going people have
decided this chair made out of wood it
should be preserved for future
generations in a museum there are so
many animals that want to come in and
chew on this chair wooden chairs
manuscripts you know paintings
calligraphy on Scrolls so many little
insects and mice want to come in and eat
these things have snakes coming to the
museum too and that museum had a team of
exterminators at all times working to
wipe out all these animals what's the
value of cultural heritage what's the
value of a nonliving inanimate work of
art how many thousands of rats have to
die so this chair so this painting so
this piece of calligraphy on a scroll
can be preserved can endure for the next
generation maybe in the end we have to
make the decision to relocate this
museum to okay so it's not being
constantly infested with wildlife that
also could be an option it's tragic and
it's true an order for veganism to win I
don't have to convince you